# Web Portals - assessment

The blog is created using Gatsby and hosted on github pages. It features a simple CI/CD github actions workflow: whenever a branch is merged with master, or something is pushed directly to master the site rebuilds and redeploys on github pages.

Visit site: https://hildebrandtk.github.io/gatsby-blog/

## What I would do if this was a real project:
- use react components from libraries such as Mantine or Material UI and theme them approprietly. Perhaps I’d research some libraries/components made specifically for blog pages
- configure Eslint and use TypeScript instead of vanilla JS code.
- either write an API in a cloudflare worker that would enable creating new posts and store them in a cloudflare KV and integrate it with a simple admin panel frontend OR integrate a headless CMS such as Netlify or Contentful to allow easy creation of new blog posts
- add user management with roles: admin (author) and user (reader)
- add functionalities for liking, sharing and commenting posts

# Answers to questions from the assessment:

## Hosting a static site using cloudflare workers:
- Taking this assessment project as an example, I’d install cloudflare CLI tool Wrangler, login and init my project, specify the path for a build folder in the created wrangler.toml config file and then modify the github workflow script to use cloudflare’s wrangler-action that deploys the site directly from a github actions workflow

## Cloudflare connectivity cloud benefits:
- Performance and optimization: using CDNs would obviously improve the user experience and make load times unnoticable, especially when paired with a static site like the ones generated by Gatsby. The global infrastructure of Cloudflare guarantees a comparable experience for users regardless of their location
- Availability and reliability: various features and processes such as load balancing (distributing traffic across multiple servers to prevent single point of failure) and Anycast networking (routing requests to the nearest data center) drastically reduce the risk of any down times  
- Security: CF offers everything thats required for a highly secure site from DDoS protection, SSL/TS encryption and comprehensive services like their web application firewall (WAF), which monitors all incoming traffic and thus can prevent the most common and most dangerous attacks such as cross-site scripting and SQL injections. Furthermore the filters can be customized to account for rarer, more sophisticated or specifically targeted attacks.   
- Ease of use: the user-friendly dashboards allow people with no DevOps/Infra experience or knowledge to manage the app, analyze performance and configure settings. 

## Top security measures for a static site:
Securing a static website is inherently easier than securing a dynamic application because static sites generally don’t involve server-side processing so there is no logic/code to hack or tamper with and don’t involve much interactivity on the client side, which minimazes points of attack (less requests sent from the client to the server), with that in mind the top security measures for a static website I’d implement are:
1.	HTTPS with SSL/TLS encryption: even if the amount of data exchanged between the client and the server is minimal, it should still be encrypted to protect it from interception or tampering.
2.	DNSSEC: even if our site has no vulnerabilities, it can still be used by bad actors for redirecting traffic to malicious sites, DNS security extensions help with that by preventing DNS spoofing and cache poisoning attacks.
3.	Content Security Policy: to mitigate attacks such as XSS and data injections we can specify which sources are trusted for sending content like scripts, images and CSS styles by using CSP headers. 
4.	Regularly updating dependencies: a basic yet crucial security measure preventing our site from being a target of an attack that uses a vulnerability found in one of the technologies/frameworks/libraries we use. This process can and should be automated.

## Performance measuring: 
For a static website, I’d focus on:
-  LCP (largest contentful paint) which measures the time it takes for the largest content element (such as an image in a blog post) visible within the viewport to load. (Bad LCP means, for example, that the user sees the text of an article but waits for a header image to load)
- FCP (first contentful paint) which marks the time at which the first piece of content is visible (E.g. after entering a site, how long does it take for an article to appear.
- CLS (cumulative layout shift) which measures the visual stability of a site by quantifying how much visible content shifts (moves around) during the loading phase. (Bad CLS means that, for example, upon clicking a link to an article the user sees the text first at the top of the page, but then the text jumps below because the image above the text rendered later)

These variables can be measured with easy-to-use tools like Google’s Lighthouse and in case of using Cloudflare to host the site, they should all be visible in a site’s dashboard.





